Welcome back.
Let's do a fun little exercise if I run this function call me maybe what is going to happen this should
be fairly obvious right if I run.
Call Me Maybe we're using set time out here and if I run I wait a few seconds four seconds and then
look at that.
Hi.
I am now here.
I get a callback.
That's great.
And what do we use here for us to do this if you've guessed closures.
Good.
You've been paying attention because we have a function in here that if you remember the way set time
works is it gets sent to the web API to start a timer for four seconds and then once that timer is gone
we send this piece of code to the callback queue and the callback queue is going to wait there until
the call stack is empty.
So call me maybe has been called.
It's now popped off the stack and the event loop is going to push this function onto the stack and run
it and it's going to console log.
Call me now.
This variable call me has technically well it should have been gone right.
Call Me Maybe has been popped off the stack by the time this line gets run but because of closures and
yes even if some of the functions go all the way out to the web API world well they still use closures
and we're able to remember this variable because of closures so let me ask you this based on what you
know about closures if I remove that variable from out there and I put it down here what's going to
happen.
Can you guess before I hit run.
Think about this and let's find out I run the function I wait I wait and I got a back.
Why is that well.
Because it doesn't matter where we define this variable.
Yes even if it's const that doesn't get hoisted we don't care about hoisting here.
Instead this piece of code goes all the way into web API world gets put on the callback queue the event
loop pushes it back onto the stack.
But by that time we already ran this function concert Call Me has already been created and assigned
and because it sees that there's an enclosing function that is using it it's going to create a closure.
How cool is that.
All right let's take a break and do some more exercises.
I'll see you in the next one by.